awesome-blog/Staking-your-SXP.md, before:

# Staking your SXP (Solar Network)

In this article, we'll be discussing **staking** and how it works in Solar. There are several misconceptions out there that arise due to the way staking is utilized across different networks. Solar uses a tried and tested method for staking, by allowing unlocked funds to earn more coins by voting for a reward-sharing delegate.

## Staking in (D)PoS networks

Staking (commonly misspelt as 'stacking' or 'steaking') is the process of leveraging an acquired amount of coins/tokens from a certain blockchain to contribute to the network, by holding them in an address and using an (either online or offline) wallet client to earn revenue based on the amount of coins/tokens held. 

#### PoS (proof-of-stake) networks
In traditional proof-of-stake networks such as Stratis or Cardano requires users to purchase a certain amount of coins, place those in an online wallet and letting the wallet client emulate a certain amount of computing power - which is in turn used to mine/forge new blocks to the blockchain. In more recent proof-of-stake networks such as Cosmos, users are required to lock their funds in an address - with a cooldown period added when wanting to unlock those funds. This way, coins are taken out of circulation rather than just being held (but still immediately spendable) as with Stratis/Cardano. In both situations, anyone can contribute to the network by staking and the more coins staked, the higher likelihood of mining/forging a new block and earning the block reward. You can earn individually from staking, or join a pool.

#### DPoS (delegated proof-of-stake) networks
In delegated proof-of-stake networks, such as Solar, ARK or EOS, there are only a set number of nodes (known as validators, block producers or delegates) that are allowed to forge new blocks. In ARK (which Solar is based upon), there are 51 forging delegates and we will use this amount as an example. Contributors have to gain votes from other network participants, who pledge their account balance as votes, and once they have a total amount of votes that put them into the top 51, they will be able to forge blocks and earn rewards. The account balance of participants who vote for a forging delegate remain unlocked and therefore it is possible to immediately spend funds held in an address. The amount of votes per address varies across different DPoS networks, but the principle is the same: one coin means one vote power. You can only earn individually if you are one of the top delegates; otherwise, you have to vote and receive a portion of rewards from a forging delegate.

## Securing the network
DPoS delegates secure the blockchain through forging blocks, and in the case of Solar, there are 53 delegates (rather than the 51 in ARK) and each active delegate forges one block every 8 seconds. Therefore 53 new blocks are forged every 7 minutes (8 * 53 = 424 seconds = 7.066.. minutes). In a similar way to proof-of-work networks such as Bitcoin, a block contains transactions and the delegate that forges them receives the transaction fees of all transactions in a forged block, on top of the block reward of 10 SXP.

## Supply inflation
DPoS chains typically have fixed inflation based over several years, this is to help control the coin supply in circulation. Inflation comes from delegates forging new blocks as described above. The effect of delegates forging new blocks increases the supply by 10 SXP per block.

#### The Solar blockchain produces around 3,294,000 SXP per month

Block rewards are controlled through an annual milestone which is fixed in the current networks config. This can only be updated if the 53 delegates reach consensus and accept the potential change. The current emission for the Solar blockchain is 10 SXP per block. At 8 seconds per block, and (60s * 60m * 24h * ~30.5d / 8s =) 329,400 blocks per month, the total emission is roughly 3,294,000 SXP per month.

#### Deflationary effects
In general DPoS blockchains allow voters to vote, allocating their wallet weight to a specific delegate and receiving rewards commensurate to weight.  This helps control inflation as the coins are out of supply when being used to vote, but the coins are not locked for a fixed time, a voter can move some or all funds at any time.

---

If you found this article helpful, check out [my other articles](https://github.com/Bx64/Awesome-Solar/blob/main/awesome-blog/README.md) and please consider voting for delegate [bfx](https://explorer.solar.network/devnet/wallet/bfx).

Commit message:

First release update - beta
Blog update:
- Released article on Deflation via monthly burn.

Awesome Solar updates:
- Added roadmap;
- Added social media channels ran by the community;
- Update Tools (Delegates) preview;
    - Add staking/voting/deflation articles to the blog section;
    - Update Social Media Bots subsection;
    - Update Websites subsection.

Furthermore:
- As before, anything containing 'TBC' is either not yet released, still in-progress or merely a placeholder;
- The documentation section has been made expandable/collapsable for the many broken links under 'Old', these will be updated when new documentation is released;
- Upon mainnet release, I will be releasing this repository under the Solar Network GitHub.

awesome-blog/Staking-your-SXP.md, after:

# Staking your SXP (Solar Network)

In this article, we'll be discussing **staking** and how it works in Solar. There are several misconceptions out there that arise due to the way staking is utilized across different networks. Solar uses a tried and tested method for staking, by allowing unlocked funds to earn more coins by voting for a reward-sharing delegate.

## Staking in (D)PoS networks

Staking (commonly misspelt as 'stacking' or 'steaking') is the process of leveraging an acquired amount of coins/tokens from a certain blockchain to contribute to the network, by holding them in an address and using an (either online or offline) wallet client to earn revenue based on the amount of coins/tokens held. 

#### PoS (proof-of-stake) networks
In traditional proof-of-stake networks such as Stratis or Cardano requires users to purchase a certain amount of coins, place those in an online wallet and letting the wallet client emulate a certain amount of computing power - which is in turn used to mine/forge new blocks to the blockchain. In more recent proof-of-stake networks such as Cosmos, users are required to lock their funds in an address - with a cooldown period added when wanting to unlock those funds. This way, coins are taken out of circulation rather than just being held (but still immediately spendable) as with Stratis/Cardano. In both situations, anyone can contribute to the network by staking and the more coins staked, the higher likelihood of mining/forging a new block and earning the block reward. You can earn individually from staking, or join a pool.

#### DPoS (delegated proof-of-stake) networks
In delegated proof-of-stake networks, such as Solar, ARK or EOS, there are only a set number of nodes (known as validators, block producers or delegates) that are allowed to forge new blocks. In ARK (which Solar is based upon), there are 51 forging delegates and we will use this amount as an example. Contributors have to gain votes from other network participants, who pledge their account balance as votes, and once they have a total amount of votes that put them into the top 51, they will be able to forge blocks and earn rewards. The account balance of participants who vote for a forging delegate remain unlocked and therefore it is possible to immediately spend funds held in an address. The amount of votes per address varies across different DPoS networks, but the principle is the same: one coin means one vote power. You can only earn individually if you are one of the top delegates; otherwise, you have to vote and receive a portion of rewards from a forging delegate.

## Securing the network
DPoS delegates secure the blockchain through forging blocks, and in the case of Solar, there are 53 delegates (rather than the 51 in ARK) and each active delegate forges one block every 8 seconds. Therefore 53 new blocks are forged every 7 minutes (8 * 53 = 424 seconds = 7.066.. minutes). In a similar way to proof-of-work networks such as Bitcoin, a block contains transactions and the delegate that forges them receives the transaction fees of all transactions in a forged block, on top of the block reward of 10 SXP.

## Supply inflation
DPoS chains typically have fixed inflation based over several years, this is to help control the coin supply in circulation. Inflation comes from delegates forging new blocks as described above. The effect of delegates forging new blocks increases the supply by 10 SXP per block.

#### The Solar blockchain produces around 3,294,000 SXP per month

Block rewards are controlled through an annual milestone which is fixed in the current networks config. This can only be updated if the 53 delegates reach consensus and accept the potential change. The current emission for the Solar blockchain is 10 SXP per block. At 8 seconds per block, and (60s * 60m * 24h * ~30.5d / 8s =) 329,400 blocks per month, the total emission is roughly 3,294,000 SXP per month.

#### Deflationary effects
In general DPoS blockchains allow voters to vote, allocating their wallet weight to a specific delegate and receiving rewards commensurate to weight.  This helps control inflation as the coins are out of supply when being used to vote, but the coins are not locked for a fixed time, a voter can move some or all funds at any time. You can read about how deflation is created in my article on [deflation in Solar](https://github.com/Bx64/Awesome-Solar/blob/main/awesome-blog/Deflation-in-Solar.md).

---

If you found this article helpful, check out [my other articles](https://github.com/Bx64/Awesome-Solar/blob/main/awesome-blog/README.md) and please consider voting for delegate [bfx](https://explorer.solar.network/devnet/wallet/bfx).
